[[../index|回首页]]
%toc
{{}}
= Mappings =

== Global mappings ==

{{{c
[count]<Leader>ww            Open index file of the [count]'s wiki
[count]<Leader>wi            Open diary index file of the [count]'s wiki.
[count]<Leader>w<Leader>w    Open diary wiki-file for today of the [count]'s wiki.
}}}

== Local mappings ==

=== NORMAL MODE ===

{{{c
<Leader>wh                   Convert current wiki page to HTML.
<Leader>whh                  Convert current wiki page to HTML and open it in webbrowser.

<Leader>w<Leader>i           Update diary section (delete old, insert new) Only works from the diary index.

<CR>                         Follow/create wiki link (create target wiki page if needed).
<S-CR>                       Split and follow (create target wiki page if needed)
<C-CR>                       Vertical split and follow (create target wiki page if needed)
<Backspace>                  Go back to previous wiki page.
<Tab>                        Find next link on the current page.
<S-Tab>                      Find previous link on the current page.

<Leader>wd                   Delete wiki page you are in.
<Leader>wr                   Rename wiki page you are in.

=                            Add header level. Create if needed
-                            Remove header level.
+                            Create and/or decorate links
glm                          Increase the indent of a single-line list item.
gll                          Decrease the indent of a single-line list item.
gl* or gl8                   Switch or insert a "*" symbol.  Only available in supported syntaxes.
gl# or gl3                   Switch or insert a "#" symbol.  Only available in supported syntaxes.
gl-                          Switch or insert a "-" symbol.  Only available in supported syntaxes.
gl1                          Switch or insert a "1." symbol.  Only available in supported syntaxes.

gqq                          Format table. If you made some changes to a table
 or                          without swapping insert/normal modes this command
gww                          will reformat it.
<A-Left>                     Move current table column to the left.
<A-Right>                    Move current table column to the right.
<C-Up>                       Open the previous day's diary link if available.
<C-Down>                     Open the next day's diary link if available.
<2-LeftMouse>                Follow wiki link (create target wiki page if needed).
<S-2-LeftMouse>              Split and follow wiki link (create target wiki page if needed).
<C-2-LeftMouse>              Vertical split and follow wiki link (create target wiki page if needed).
<RightMouse><LeftMouse>      Go back to previous wiki page.

zM/zm                        Folding
zR/zr                        Unfolding
}}}

=== INSERT MODE ===

{{{c
<CR>                         Go to the table cell beneath the current one, create a new row if on the last one.
<Tab>                        Go to the next table cell, create a new row if on the last cell.
}}}

== Text objects ==

{{{c
ah                           A section segment (the area between two consecutive
                             headings) including trailing empty lines.
ih                           A section segment without trailing empty lines.

You can 'vah' to select a section segment with its contents or 'dah' to delete
it or 'yah' to yank it or 'cah' to change it.

a\                           A cell in a table.
i\                           An inner cell in a table.
ac                           A column in a table.
ic                           An inner column in a table.
}}}

= Commands =

{{{c
*:VimwikiAll2HTML* Convert all wiki pages to HTML.
*:VimwikiToggleListItem* Toggle list item on/off (checked/unchecked)

*:VimwikiSearch* /pattern/
*:VWS* /pattern/
    Search for /pattern/ in all files of current wiki.
    To display all matches use |:lopen| command.
    To display next match use |:lnext| command.
    To display previous match use |:lprevious| command.

*:VimwikiBacklinks*
*:VWB*
    Search for wikilinks to the [[current wiki page]]
    in all files of current wiki.
    To display all matches use |:lopen| command.
    To display next match use |:lnext| command.
    To display previous match use |:lprevious| command.

*:VimwikiTable*
    Create a table with 5 cols and 2 rows.

    :VimwikiTable cols rows
    Create a table with the given cols and rows

    :VimwikiTable cols
    Create a table with the given cols and 2 rows
}}}

= Wiki syntax =

{{{c
* bold *
_italic _
~ ~ strikeout text ~ ~
' code (no syntax) text '
super^script^
sub,,script,,
}}}
 
{{{class="brush: python"
for i in range(1, 5):
    print(i)
}}}

{{{class="brush: c"
#include "helloworld.h"
int helloworld()
{
   printf("hello world");
}
}}}

{{{c
Unordered lists:
  * Bulleted list item
or
  - Bulleted list item

Ordered lists:
  # Numbered list item


Text line started with %% is a comment.
E.g.:
 %% this text would not be in HTML


4 or more dashes at the start of the line is a 'horizontal line' 
-------


[ [ This is a link ] ]
[ [ This is a link source | Description of the link ] ]
[ [ /home/somebody/ | Home Directory ] ]
[ [ wiki#:This is a link ] ]
[ [ wiki#:This is a link source | Description of the link ] ]
[ [ diary:2012-03-05 ] ]
[ [ ../../diary/2012-03-05 ] ]
[ [ local:../assets/data.csv|data (CSV) ] ]
[ [ file: /// home/ somebody/ a/ b/ c/ music.mp3 ] ]
{ { local:../../images/vimwiki_logo.png } }
{ { http: // vimwiki.googlecode.com/hg/images/vimwiki_logo.png } }
{ { http: // vimwiki.googlecode.com/hg/images/vimwiki_logo.png | Vimwiki } }
{ { http: // .../vimwiki_logo.png | cool stuff | style="width:150px; height: 120px;" } }
{ { http: // .../vimwiki_logo.png || class="center flow blabla" } }
[ [ http: // someaddr.com/bigpicture.jpg | { { http: // someaddr.com/thumbnail.jpg } } ] ]

}}}

= Placeholders =

{{{c
% toc Table of Contents
You can add 'table of contents' to your HTML page generated from wiki one.

%title VimWiki Usage
When you htmlize your wiki page, the default title is the filename of the page

% nohtml
If you do not want a wiki page to be converted to HTML

% template name
To apply a concrete HTML template to a wiki page
  }}}
